Right now, Israeli
forces say
they are conducting
a significant operation,
including strikes
against Hamas targets in Gaza.
CNN team near the border
capturing these images of flares
lighting up the night sky
just a short time ago.
And joining me now
to discuss
is IDF international spokesperson,
Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus.
Colonel, thanks very much for your time.
We've seen a lot of these explosions
and fires last night and tonight.
What can you tell us about
what we're seeing?
What are these strikes going after?
War continue?
Well, first of all, good evening.
Thank you for having me.
War continues in Gaza.
We are striking Hamas
and we are going strong.
Hold after a stronghold,
according to our plan,
in a systematic effort to dismantle Hamas
from its military capabilities
in order to make sure that October seven
never happens again.
But specifically, you can't
tell us what the strikes are about
at this point.
They are about underground infrastructure
that Hamas has in various
populated areas.
And we have troops on the ground,
infantry, armor combat engineers.
They are striking
and they are also directing
fires from the air,
according to intelligence
that they have on the ground.
And intelligence
that is being generated
all in an effort
to strike Hamas militants.
And there was a special focus
on Hamas commanders
in the IDF also says that Israeli
forces are ready to shift
into an offensive mode
at any moment
on the northern border with Lebanon.
Can you tell us about that?
Well, actually, our posture
along the Lebanese
border has been very defensive,
and we've only been responding to attacks
from Hezbollah today.
An Israeli
civilian was killed
when a anti-tank missile
that was fired from Lebanon
by Hezbollah at an Israeli community
An Israeli civilian was killed
and others were wounded.
And there has been rocket attacks.
And that's.
Now
we are deployed in significant strength
and are ready to respond
to any escalation coming from Lebanon
and continue
to warn the state of Lebanon
and Hezbollah
that it would not be in their interest
to escalate the situation.
And, Colonel.
All weekend
long, we've seen images of carnage
in Gaza.
The civilian death
toll appears to be going up with every
Israeli strike inside of Gaza.
I know you've said
and your counterparts have said that
you're not targeting civilians.
You're doing
your best not to target civilians,
but yet there are
scores of civilian casualties.
I'm wondering, at what point do you say
these strikes have accomplished
all that they can accomplish
and you have to shift to a more ground
based offensive inside of Gaza
to make sure that you're not causing
an excessive
number of civilian casualties?
Yeah, I agree.
I mean, we have said
and we will
continue to say that we are not fighting
against the civilian population.
They are not our enemy. Hamas is.
And the sad reality and the reason behind
all of this really sad footage
that we see
coming out of Gaza, it's
not the Israeli activity.
It's the fact that Hamas
systematically, systematically
hides behind those civilians.
You know, there's
an ongoing operation to try to evacuate
Palestinians civilians
from northern Gaza.
More than 800,000
have already made the smart decision
to do so.
We've opened specific
humanitarian corridors yesterday
and today for the continued
unhindered flow
of Palestinian
civilians south to safer areas.
There is water in the south.
There is access
to food and medicine in the south.
And it is
definitely a safer
and the safest area
to be in the Gaza Strip.
And we continue to call on the population
to move south.
We don't want them in the battlefield
and we don't want them in harm's way.
We want Hamas to stand up and fight.
And we are going to
take the battle to Hamas.
And we really hope
that the civilian population
won't continue to be held
by Hamas as human shields.
And you say you want the civilians
to move south
so they're out of harm's way.
Wouldn't a humanitarian pause
facilitate that help in that effort?
Why?
Why stand against that idea
of a humanitarian pause right now?
Why not be open to something temporary
so civilians can safely
get out of these areas?
I totally agree.
And that's what I said.
We've done that twice in two days.
Yesterday and today,
there were humanitarian corridors.
We opened up an area
along Salahadin Road,
which is the main road.
And we told the Palestinians
before we listened
between ten and two,
there's going to be a pause
and we will facilitate the free
and unhindered movement from the north
south of Gaza
so that you can be in relative safety,
take your belongings,
take your family and go
We have done this twice.
We have issued
a statement in exactly what we're doing.
Okay.
And forgive me for interrupting,
but I just want to make sure
because the terminology
is important to get right here.
Are you saying that the IDF did have what
you consider to be a humanitarian pause
this weekend?
As had been requested
by the Biden administration or Israel?
Is this your own version
of a humanitarian pause?
Can you just clarify that?
Yeah, I will happily clarify.
Yesterday and today, for many hours
with prior notice and warning,
we facilitate that.
We stop firing in certain areas
of northern Gaza,
which is the main combat area.
And we called on Palestinians
to move south. Many did.
Not enough.
More than 800,000
have left northern Gaza, which is good.
But we want all of the civilians
to be out of harm's way.
And we did
so not once, but twice
in order to facilitate more.
The sad reality is that even
these efforts were hindered
by Hamas,
who started firing at the convoys
and Israeli troops in that area.
And then,
unfortunately, that humanitarian window
was eventually closed.
But the bottom line is,
I think that
we don't only talk the talk,
but we actually do it on the ground.
And we have for two
days in a road, facilitated
safe access
and safe transit
of Palestinian civilians.
I understand
it is underreported
because perhaps it doesn't go
according to the narrative,
but we are trying to get civilians
wrong, trying to
And that's what I'm trying to ask
to get that clarification.
And so are you saying
that these humanitarian windows
that were opened up over the weekend,
do they meet
to the satisfaction
of the Biden administration,
what they were calling for
and having some kind of pause
to facilitate
the movement of civilians
out of harm's way?
Do you have confirmation
from the Biden administration that, okay.
Thank you for doing that,
or has it not reached that level yet?
I don't know
exactly how the administration
feels about it.
I know that we are doing
real honest efforts to get civilians
out of the battlefield.
Not only are we telling them where to go,
but we are also helping
and creating much better
humanitarian conditions in the south,
which is where
we're telling people to go.
There's less combat there.
There is access to water by the way,
from Israel as well.
We've opened
the taps from our side
and there's an inflow of goods.
More and more trucks,
humanitarian trucks come in every day
to the south there's a humanitarian zone.
And at the end of the day,
it's the best thing for civilians to do.
And we are facilitating it, honestly,
because we want a battlefield
where we can face Hamas
and make sure that we engage them
and them only
and beat them on the battlefield
to make sure that never again
will they be able to attack Israel
All right, Colonel Conricus,
thank you very much for your time.